- So Adam, welcome to my office.
- Thank you sir.
- On the internet, this is
called The Cosmic Office.
So, I have a sample of aerogel
in this office.
(gasps sharply)
- Really?
- Yes.
- I have never touched
a sample of aerogel--
- You've never touched aerogel?
- In my whole life.
- Really?
- Always wanted to.
- This will be a first for Adam Savage.
- Dude.
- It'll be a first for everybody.
(laughs hysterically)
- What the hell is aerogel?
(chuckling)
- Okay, aerogel is the most ghost-like
solid substance ever spun.
- Oh really?
- Yes.
And it's used for NASA
and the aerogel is a,
has many applications.
But one of the ones that
we care most about is,
you put that on a
spacecraft, on a space probe,
and as it flies through a comet's tail,
particles of the comet enter the gel
and it slowly stops
it, so that it's intact
by the time you bring it
back and then analyze it.
So you, among the many
things you can do with it--
- Is catch a comet's tail?
- Ya catch a comet's tail.
(laughs)
(mumbles)
- It's also, it's highly
insulating properties.
It's like one of the most
insulating things ever known.
And the way they make it,
they have some polymer chain
that they spin up and
it's this solid thing
but then they evaporate all the liquid
and what's left are the molecules
that are, that flesh out the volume
that the liquid wants to occupy.
- Ooh.
- And so...
- And it's like 99.9% air right?
- Yes.
(gasps sharply)
- Higher than that.
- Oh my gosh.
- Okay, so here it is.
- Oh my goodness, look at that.
(laughs)
- I said, it's like a ghost.
- It does look like a ghost--
- Okay.
- You brought a tesseract out.
- Oh my--
- Hang on, hang on.
- No way.
- Hang on...
Way.
Okay
(gasp sharply)
- Look at that.
- Oh my...
Okay that is one of the
coolest things I've ever seen.
- And it's like a ghost.
- It is.
- It's actually solid.
It's not flexible.
- Right.
- And it's very brittle.
- It is science cotton candy.
(laughs loudly)
- Don't eat it Chuck.
Okay, here we go.
Ready?
- Ready.
- Whoah.
- That is aerogel.
- Look at that!
That's (gasps sharply)
Oh my God.
I can feel that it's--
- You can pick it up.
(gasps sharply)
- I trust you.
- It's like a ghost.
- That is so like a ghost.
- If Casper were made
of anything, Casper
would be made of aerogel.
- If Casper were made of something,
oh that is too cool.
(laughs)
That really is too cool man.
Look at that.
- It might be the lowest density
solid stuff ever because
it's not, I mean it's,
it's volume filling strands of molecules.
- Is this how neutrinos talk about Earth?
(laughs loudly)
- Very good.
- Thank you.
- That was very good.
Neutrino earth is like
transparent to Earth.
- Right.
- So...
- That is great.
- So this is aerogel
and I have a whole cube of it here--
- That is an incredible
collection of aerogel.
- So I am honored that I could show Adam
something he'd never
seen or touched before.
- Nice.
- And I show you something
you didn't even know existed.
(laughs)
- It's so true.
- Just to remind people
we got Adam here 'cause
he's got a new book.
- Yes.
- We would have him anyway
even without the book.
That's right.
- Let me just make that clear.
- Absolutely.
- I appreciate that.
- Okay Every Tool's A Hammer:
Life Is What You Make It.
I see what he did there
with the subtitle--
- Yeah, it's very cool.
- That's right, right.
All right we're signing off on StarTalk.
Adam thanks for coming through town.
- That was awesome.